# Integration with other GEs

.fx: cover

@conwet

---

## Introduction

.fx: section-title

---
<!-- SLIDE 3 -->
## Introduction

WireCloud provides integration with several of the generic enablers provided by
by FIWARE. Some of those GE has been integrated in the core of WireCloud by
means of providing a plugin for FIWARE. This core integration provides support
for the following GEs:

* IdM
* WStore
* Orion Context Broker
* Object Storage

In any case, widgets and operators can make use of other GE as some of them
does require special support from WireCloud:

* Kurento
* CKAN
* ...

---

## Introduction

This documnet will describe what can you expect from the integration of each of
these generic enablers, from the perspective of an end-user and from the
perpective of a developer.

---

## IdM

.fx: section-title

---
<!-- SLIDE 5 -->
## IdM

* IdM is integrated directly in Wirecloud, there is no API for making request to
  the IdM server from widgets/operators
* This integration provides the following features:
	- User authentication using IdM credentials
	- Support for using the obtained OAuth2 token for making requests to
      three-party services (including from widgets/operators)

---

## WStore

.fx: section-title

---
<!-- SLIDE 7 -->
## WStore

* WStore is integrated directly in WireCloud, there is no API for making request to the WStore from widgets/operators
* Requires IdM integration for using user credentials when connecting with the WStore
* This integration provides the following features:
	- Allow to browse WStore offerings
	- Support for acquiring and installing offerings
	- Support for uploading Wirecloud components to the WStore. Enabling you to easily create offering using those resources

---

## Orion Context Broker

.fx: section-title

---
<!-- SLIDE 9 -->
## Orion Context Broker

* Orion Context Broker subscriptions/notifications requires what is called
  ngsi-proxy (You have to deploy it for custom deployments, but there is a
  global instance at FIWARE Lab)
* See the [OrionStarterKit
  offering](https://store.lab.fiware.org/search/keyword/OrionStarterKit)
  available on FIWARE Lab for obtaining a set of generic widgets/operators and
  some example mashups using the Orion Context Broker.
* Those widgets/operators will be enough for simple usages. In any case,
  WireCloud provides JavaScript API that can be used for developing new
  widgets/operators:
	- This API provides integration for authentication through the IdM
	- Supports creating and modifying entities, querying, subscriptions, etc.
    - Automatically cancels subscriptions created by widgets/operators when they
      are unloaded

---

## Object Storage

.fx: section-title

---
<!-- SLIDE 11 -->
## Object Storage

* WireCloud provides a JavaScript API:
	- Has minimal support for querying KeyStone services
	- This API provides integration for authenticating through the KeyStone server using tokens obtained from the IdM server
	- Supports uploading objects, download objects, deleting objects, listing containers, creating containers and deleting containers

---

## Other GEs

.fx: section-title

---
<!-- SLIDE 13 -->
## Other GEs
### Kurento

* [Kurento](http://catalogue.fiware.org/enablers/stream-oriented-kurento) is a
  WebRTC media server and a set of client APIs making simple the development of
  advanced video applications for WWW and smartphone platforms.
* See the [KurentoStarterKit
  offering](https://store.lab.fiware.org/search/keyword/KurentoStarterKit)
  available on FIWARE Lab for obtaining a set of widgets already using Kurento.
* You can develop widgets using Kurento without requiring special support from
  WireCloud.

---

## Other GEs
### CKAN

* CKAN is a powerful data management system that makes data **accessible** – by
  providing tools to streamline **publishing**, sharing, **finding** and
  **using** data. CKAN is aimed at data publishers (national and regional
  governments, companies and organizations) wanting to make their data open and
  available.

* See the [CKANStarterKit
  offering](https://store.lab.fiware.org/search/keyword/CKANStarterKit)
  available on FIWARE Lab for obtaining a set of widgets/operators already using
  CKAN.

---

<!-- SLIDE 14 -->
## Other GEs
### Cosmos

* Comsos is planned to be integrated soon. This integration will provide support
  for:
	- using the webHDFS filesystem (uploading and downloading data being
      consumed and produced by Cosmos)
	- Integration with the Hive service: queue new jobs and retrieving their
      results

---

.fx: back-cover

Thanks!

FIWARE                                FIWARE Lab
OPEN APIs FOR OPEN MINDS              Spark your imagination

         www.fiware.org               FIWARE Ops
twitter: @Fiware                      Easing your operations

