# Accessing third-party servicies using IdM tokens

.fx: cover

@conwet

---

## Introduction

.fx: section-title

---

## Introduction

Sometimes you need to access to a third-party service whose authentication is
managed using the same IdM service used by the WireCloud instance. In those
cases, you can make use of the support provided by WireCloud for injecting the
OAuth2 token obtained from the IdM server into the requests made from your
widgets/operators.

> WireCloud provides this token injection support through the WireCloud's proxy,
> which is the component in charge of injecting the token. If you want to use
> the tokens obtained from the IdM, you must use the WireCloud's proxy (e.g. by
> using the `MashupPlatform.http.makeRequest` method). WireCloud doesn't provide
> support for reading OAuth2 tokens from widgets/operators.

<div></div>

> **Note:** This document uses the headers names available on WireCloud 0.9.1+
> for simplicity, but previous versions of WireCloud use other names. See the
> latest slide for more info.

---

## Introduction
### How to use the token injection support

All the configuration about how to inject the OAuth2 token into your requests is
provided using HTTP headers that will be consumed by the WireCloud's proxy. The
main header is: `FIWARE-OAuth-Token`. This header should be added to any
requests (providing `true` as value) in which we want to inject an OAuth2 token.

Take into account that anonymous users doesn't have a valid OAuth2 token. Also,
if you are running a custom instance of WireCloud it can be configured to
support several auth backends. In that case, some user won't be associated with
an IdM account. You can check if the currently logged user has an associated IdM
token by running the following code:

```javascript
MashupPlatform.context.get('fiware_token_available');
```

---

## Injecting IdM tokens...

.fx: section-title

---

## Injecting IdM tokens...
### into HTTP headers

Usually you will want to inject the OAuth2 token into an HTTP header, this can
be accomplished by using the `FIWARE-OAuth-Header-Name` header. Tipically,
you will want to add the token into the `X-Auth-Token` header (as used by Open
Stack) or into the `Authorization` header (as dictated by the OAuth2 RFC). If
you inject the OAuth2 token into the `Authorization` header, WireCloud will add
the token type prefix accordingly (e.g. `Bearer`).

**Example**:

```javascript
MashupPlatform.http.makeRequest(url, {
    requestHeaders: {
        "FIWARE-OAuth-Token": "true",
        "FIWARE-OAuth-Header-Name": "X-Auth-Token"
    },
    ...
});
```

---

## Injecting IdM tokens...
### as GET parameters

Another common place for injecting the OAuth2 token is into a GET parameter on
the URL. This kind of injection is configured using the
`FIWARE-OAuth-GET-Parameter` header.

**Example**:

```javascript
MashupPlatform.http.makeRequest(url, {
    requestHeaders: {
        "FIWARE-OAuth-Token": "true",
        "FIWARE-OAuth-GET-Parameter": "access_token"
    },
    ...
});
```

This will add an `access_token` GET parameter into the URL containing the OAuth2
token of the currently logged user.

---

## Injecting IdM tokens...
### into the body of the request

Finally, the proxy can inject OAuth2 tokens into the body of the request. To do
so, you have to provide the pattern to be searched and replaced with the OAuth2
token using the `FIWARE-OAuth-Body-Pattern` header.

**Example**:

```javascript
MashupPlatform.http.makeRequest(url, {
    method: 'POST',
    postBody: JSON.stringify({token: "%fiware_token%"}),
    requestHeaders: {
        "FIWARE-OAuth-Token": "true",
        "FIWARE-OAuth-Body-Pattern": "%fiware_token%"
    },
    ...
});
```

This will search for any `%fiware_token%` ocurrence in the body of the request
and replace it with the OAuth2 token of the user.

---

## Using the dashboard owner IdM token

.fx: section-title

---

## Using the dashboard owner IdM token

WireCloud 0.7.2+ provides experimental support for using the OAuth2 token of the
owner of the dashboard instead of using the OAuth2 token of the current logged
user. To do so, add the `FIWARE-OAuth-Source` header into your request and use
the `workspaceowner` value. This header can be used in combination with any of
the previously presented headers: `FIWARE-OAuth-GET-Parameter`,
`FIWARE-OAuth-Header-Name` or `FIWARE-OAuth-Body-Pattern`.

**Example**:

```javascript
MashupPlatform.http.makeRequest(url, {
    requestHeaders: {
        "FIWARE-OAuth-Token": "true",
        "FIWARE-OAuth-Header-Name": "X-Auth-Token",
        "FIWARE-OAuth-Source": "workspaceowner"
    },
    ...
});
```

---

.fx: back-cover

Thanks!

FIWARE                                FIWARE Lab
OPEN APIs FOR OPEN MINDS              Spark your imagination

         www.fiware.org               FIWARE Ops
twitter: @Fiware                      Easing your operations

